# Class 15 | December 6

## 📋 We did it!

* You all made cool things with code!
  * Learning creative code techniques were part of the journey, but you've also learned:
    * Language features & basic object-oriented code concepts
    * Setup & configuration of tools
    * How to try and fail, then try more and (sometimes) succeed
    * How to ask questions in a new and very deep discipline
  * You've inspired me!
    * Tools you've chosen
    * Ideas you've brought to the table with all of your various interests and inherent talents
    * Bringing humanity to code
    * Being nice & creative human beings
* Where to go from here?
  * Keep coding! You all have the ability to code, and I'm excited to see what you make
  * Go back to the basics & get more comfortable with the puzzle pieces
  * Read about more advanced techniques and tools
  * Find your own path in this medium - there is a special place that you uniquely occupy
  * Ask your peers and mentors questions to become a better programmer
  * Learn the tools that enable you to do the work that you want to do
  * Augment your other practices with code
  * Practice by giving yourself challenges like #codevember and #36daysoftype. 
  * Emulate others until you can do the work that *you* dream up
  * Follow inspirational coders and organizations on GitHub, Twitter, Instagram, and their blogs. Aspire to join them!
  * Script yourself out of doing mundane life activities
  * Fix your family & friends' computers

## 📋 Presentations

* Present your final project
* Final versions should be uploaded to Canvas by Mon, Dec 13th

## 📝 Final Project Guidelines

* Guidelines originally posted in the [Oct 30 class](./2022-10-31.md)
* Goals:
  * Combine your interests (code and not-code)
  * Build something meaningful for yourself
  * Experiment with a specific technology that interests you
  * Flex your skills
  * Learn some new techniques & revisit topics we've discussed in class
* Deliverables:
  * The code itself, uploaded or hosted on your own website or Google Drive/Dropbox/etc
  * One or more of the following: 
    * A live version of your code running on a website
    * A .zip file with the code that can be run locally
    * A video recap of the code in action
  * Documentation:
    * Screenshots and/or video screen recordings that show off the output and program features
    * A description of the piece (and title if applicable). At least 1 paragraph about what you've created, what you learned, tools, techniques, and anything else that makes your project interesting. Tell a story.
    * Documentation should ideally go into your portfolio or exist on the web somewhere. You host it on your own website, the p5js editor, YouTube/Vimeo, or otherwise.
